---
title: "Adventure land in Unreal engine"
date: 2023-02-22T10:58:43+01:00
draft: false
id: 10
tags: ["Unreal Engine"]
featureImage: "/images/AdventureLand/Splash.png"
blogImages: [/images/AdventureLand/1.gif, /images/AdventureLand/2.gif, /images/AdventureLand/3.gif, /images/AdventureLand/4.gif, /images/AdventureLand/5.gif, /images/AdventureLand/6.gif]
downloadIcons: ["itch-io","youtube"]
downloadPages: ["https://meruman.itch.io/adventure-land", "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2dKuFNSEfQI&t=60s"]
---

### **Overview:** 

Adventure land is a first-person 3D video game where the player has to collect hammers to clear the levels while avoiding an enemy that will chase them forever if they get too close. The game features five levels, menus, and professional finishes. I learned various game design notions and implemented them to balance gameplay difficulty. I used Unreal Engine 5 to create the game using a clean and robust use of blueprints.

### **Key Skills Learned:**

-   Creating a 3D AAA video game with artificial intelligence, menus, different levels, and professional finishes ready to be published on Steam, consoles, or other platforms.
-   Mastering the blueprints of Unreal Engine 5.
-   Using and creating in a professional way the materials, particles, interface systems, classes, lights, and tools to generate environments, characters, and animations of Unreal Engine 5.
-   Applying notions of color theory and aesthetics to video games.
-   Using external professional model, texture, and sound creation software to import and use in Unreal Engine 5.
-   Designing a game with balanced gameplay difficulty and a smooth difficulty curve.
       
### **Tools and Technologies Used:**

-   Unreal Engine 5
-   Blueprints visual script
-   Audacity
-   GIMP


### **Project Process:**

I started by downloading Unreal Engine 5 and exploring its interface and basic tools. I created a hyper-realistic 3D environment within a few hours, which gave me confidence that I could create AAA quality environments quickly and efficiently. After this, I created a document that included the ideas I was going to develop during the project, like the levels and the core mechanics.

I then created the base of my game (using Unreal Engine blueprint visual scripting), which was a playable version. I then focused on finishing a level with aesthetic textures, models, lighting, and other professional finishes while learning different level creation tools and advanced lighting systems.

Next, I refined the gameplay with blueprints and created the interface, death event, and other methods to solve bugs and errors. I also added professional sounds to the game, learning how to create my own sounds.

After that, I learned advanced aspects such as importing textures to Unreal, creating materials and particles, and different tricks to set my levels and give variety to the environments. I then created an enemy with advanced blueprints that could chase the player, and designed the main menu of the game with graphic configuration options.

Finally, I finished the rest of the game levels and learned how to import my own models from external software and create my own particles within Unreal Engine. Once everything was done, I compiled the final version of the game.

### **Conclusion:**

Adventure land is an excellent example of my skills in creating a 3D AAA video game with advanced AI, menus, different levels, and professional finishes. I learned various aspects of game design and Unreal Engine 5, including color theory, aesthetics, and the creation of materials, particles, and interfaces. This project showcases my ability to create a game with balanced gameplay difficulty and a smooth difficulty curve, and highlights my proficiency in using external software to import textures and create professional sounds as well as programming knowledge used to create a great gameplay and mechanics.

### **Future Plans:**

I plan to further develop my skills in game development and create more games. I also plan to explore other game engines and software to expand my knowledge and expertise in game development.