---
title: "Cliche, the origins in Unreal Engine"
date: 2023-02-22T10:58:43+01:00
draft: false
id: 11
tags: ["Unreal Engine", "AI"]
featureImage: "/images/Cliche/splash.gif"
blogImages: [/images/Cliche/1.gif, /images/Cliche/2.gif, /images/Cliche/3.gif, /images/Cliche/4.gif, /images/Cliche/6.gif, /images/Cliche/7.gif, /images/Cliche/8.gif, /images/Cliche/9.gif, /images/Cliche/10.gif]
---

### **Description:** 

Cliche, The Origins is a 3D action-adventure game developed during a game jam with the theme "cliche". The game features a player character on a quest to rescue a princess kidnapped by an evil ghost. The player needs to collect printing stereotypes in each level to print newspapers in the cliche machine and find the princess. The game has 5 levels with enemies, mini bosses, and a big boss on each level. The player can buy equipment and upgrade their weapon in the main village shop. The game has polished graphics, sound effects, and music.

### **Key Skills Learned:**

-   Game design documentation
-   3D modeling in Blender
-   Animation creation for characters and objects
-   Importing and using pre-made 3D models
-   Player controls and game mechanics
-   AI logic using behavioral trees and query systems
-   Level design and creation
-   Sound and music creation and implementation
-   Particle effects
-   Shop system design and implementation
-   Interactive objects
-   Storytelling system
-   HUD design and implementation
       
### **Tools and Technologies Used:**

-   Unreal Engine
-   Blueprints visual scripting
-   Blender
-   Audacity
-   GIMP


### **Details:**

To create Cliche, the Origins, I first developed a comprehensive Game Design Document (GDD) to outline the game's ideas and mechanics. I then began building the world and the characters, which included creating a small fairy model and modifying a printer model with its animations.

Next, I imported free and licensed 3D models for the main character and enemies and to build the level environment. I also set up player controls and game mechanics, including jump, run, move, shoot, change weapons, and change bullets. I added animations to every character and enemy and created all the necessary actors and logic.

To enhance the gameplay experience, I set up AI logic using behavioral trees and query systems that allow enemies to patrol the area and start attacking the player if they detect them. I also created various pickups, such as ammo, hearts, and shields, which players can collect throughout the game.

To improve the game's visuals, I added a smooth aiming system that allows the player character to aim wherever the mouse pointer is pointing. I also created a HUD that displays health, bullet number, and coins that the player has. Additionally, I set up all the AI logic and animations for the main bosses and the last boss and added music and sound effects to everything.

Finally, I added a shop system, intro and outro to the game, and created interactive objects for the shop. I also developed a Storyteller system that shows the story of the game in the HUD. Overall, I created a polished, finished, and ready-to-publish game.

### **Outcome and Future Improvements:**

The result is a 3D action-adventure game that meets the game jam theme and features polished graphics, sound effects, and music. The game showcases my skills in game development and demonstrates my ability to work on a project from start to finish.

### **Future Improvements:**

While I am proud of the game that I created, there are always areas that can be improved. For future iterations of the game, I would like to add more levels, enemies, and bosses to make the game even more challenging. I would also like to refine the AI logic to make the enemies more intelligent and dynamic. Additionally, I would like to add more interactive elements to the game, such as puzzles and hidden objects. Finally, I would like to improve the graphics and add more detailed textures to make the game even more visually stunning.