---
title: "Retrovolve"
date: 2023-03-30T10:58:43+01:00
draft: false
id: 12
tags: ["Unreal Engine", "AI"]
featureImage: "/images/Retrovolve/splashscreen.gif"
blogImages: [/images/Retrovolve/1.gif, /images/Retrovolve/2.png,/images/Retrovolve/3.png,/images/Retrovolve/4.png,/images/Retrovolve/5.png,/images/Retrovolve/6.png]
downloadIcons: ["itch-io", "youtube"]
downloadPages: ["https://meruman.itch.io/retrovolve", "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yoGoWAMuB0A"]
---

### **Description:** 

Retrovolve is a 2D game made for the Back to the Beginnings: Reverse Evolution Game jam. The game is set in a post apocalypses world where a mutation made everyone evolve too much. A young scientist named Dr. James discovered a way to revert all the evolutions back to normal so she went outside but... she never made it back... Now you need to go find her and restore the world while finding the cause of all the mutations.

### **Key Skills Learned:**

-   Game design documentation
-   2D pixel art in Aseprite
-   Animation creation for characters and objects
-   Importing and using pre-made 2D models
-   Player controls and game mechanics
-   AI logic using behavioral trees and query systems
-   Level design and creation
-   Sound and music implementation
-   Particle effects
-   Interactive objects
-   HUD design
       
### **Tools and Technologies Used:**

-   Unreal Engine
-   Blueprints visual scripting
-   Aseprite
-   Audacity
-   GIMP


### **Details:**
Retrovolve is a pixel art platformer game that I conceptualized and developed from scratch. The project started with the creation of a comprehensive Game Design Document (GDD) to lay out the foundational ideas, gameplay mechanics, and overall vision for the game.

The development process involved crafting the game's universe and characters through a combination of importing, generating pixel art assets using Aseprite, and refining them to align with the desired aesthetic.

Several crucial milestones were achieved during the development journey:

- Animation Creation: I meticulously crafted animations for characters, bringing them to life and imbuing them with personality.
- Level Design: I meticulously designed and constructed various levels within the game, ensuring a diverse and engaging player experience.
- Core Mechanics: I implemented fundamental gameplay mechanics such as jumping, running, and shooting. The highlight was a dynamic grappling hook mechanic, allowing players to interact with the environment strategically.
- Enemy AI: To elevate the gameplay, I introduced AI enemies driven by behavioral trees. These enemies patrolled, attacked players, and responded intelligently to the player's actions. They also could be devolved by the player making them less dangerous.
- Evolution and Devolution System: I innovated a transformative gameplay mechanic allowing players to morph between human, monkey, and robot forms, each with distinct abilities. The monkey boasted exceptional agility, while the robot wielded a powerful gun. The human form interacted with a grappling hook and a devolution ray, offering diverse strategies for players.
- Collectibles and Storytelling: I integrated collectible cassette tapes into the game, which not only served as progression markers but also unveiled the game's narrative through audio segments. This feature created an immersive storytelling experience.
- Audio and Music: The auditory experience was enriched with a range of sound effects and music that complemented the game's atmosphere.
- Story Integration: I collaborated with a voice actress to give life to the story, lending a unique dimension to the narrative.

### **Outcome and Future Improvements:**
The completion of Retrovolve marked a significant achievement in my game development journey, showcasing my ability to conceptualize, design, and execute a complete gaming experience.

Looking forward, several avenues for improvement and expansion are worth exploring:

- Expanded Levels: Adding more levels with increasing complexity to challenge players and maintain their engagement.
- Additional Transformations: Introducing new forms or abilities for the player character to enhance strategic depth.
- Enhanced AI: Further refining enemy AI behavior and introducing boss battles to diversify gameplay.
- Interactive Environments: Incorporating interactive elements within levels to encourage creative problem-solving.
- Community Engagement: Encouraging player feedback and integrating suggestions to refine the game based on user experiences.

Overall, Retrovolve not only showcases my proficiency in game design, development, and storytelling but also highlights my dedication to creating captivating and enjoyable player experiences.
