---
title: "Maze Walking with Genetic Algorithms in Unity"
date: 2023-02-22T10:58:43+01:00
draft: false
id: 2
tags: ["unity", "AI"]
featureImage: "/images/MazeWalkers/splashscreen.gif"

downloadIcons: ["github", "youtube"]
downloadPages: ["https://github.com/Meruman/Games-AI/tree/master/Maze" ,"https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hs2pOPHnaoM"]
---

### **Description:** 

In this project, I created a population manager in Unity using genetic algorithms to navigate a maze. The project involved setting up a population of bots, breeding them, and evaluating their fitness in order to create a population that can successfully navigate a maze.

### **Key Learnings:**

-   Creating a population manager in Unity using genetic algorithms
-   Implementing fitness functions in genetic algorithms
-   Managing data structures using lists in C#
-   Applying good coding practices.
-   Testing and experimenting with different parameters to fine-tune the genetic algorithm and improve the quality of the solutions it generates.
       
### **Tools and Technologies Used:**

-   Unity game engine
-   C# programming language

### **Outcome:**

The project resulted in a working genetic algorithm that successfully navigated through a maze. It demonstrated my ability to apply genetic algorithms in game development, and my proficiency in using Unity and C# to implement complex solutions.

### **Future Improvements:**

One potential area for future improvement would be to explore different selection and mutation strategies to improve the performance of the genetic algorithm. Additionally, the project could be expanded to include more complex mazes or other challenges that require navigation and decision-making.