---
title: "Genetic Algorithm Flappy Bird Game"
date: 2023-02-22T10:58:43+01:00
draft: false
id: 3
tags: ["unity", "AI"]
featureImage: "/images/giphy.gif"

downloadIcons: ["github", "youtube"]
downloadPages: ["https://github.com/Meruman/Games-AI/tree/master/FlappyBirdsAI" ,"https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h5A7V4crkC0"]
---

### **Description:** 

This project is a 2D game inspired by Flappy Bird, where the player controls a bird to navigate through obstacles. However, instead of controlling the bird manually, the game uses genetic algorithms to train the birds to navigate through the obstacles on their own. Each bird has its own gene sequence, and the birds that get the farthest through the obstacle course are considered the fittest and bred together.

### **Key Skills Demonstrated:**

-   Machine learning using genetic algorithms
-   2D collision detection and raycasting in Unity
-   Fitness function evaluation and optimization
-   Object-oriented programming principles
-   Debugging and visualization using Unity's tools
       
### **Tools and Technologies Used:**

-   Unity game engine
-   C# programming language


### **Details:**

The game uses 2D colliders and raycasting in Unity to detect collisions with objects in a 2D space. The fitness function is used to evaluate the performance of each bird in the population, which is a crucial concept in genetic algorithms and machine learning in general. The code is written in an object-oriented style, with different classes for the bird, population, and genetic algorithm. Debugging is done using Unity's tools to visualize the raycasts and collisions.

### **Outcome:**

The game successfully trains the birds to navigate through the obstacle course without crashing into walls using genetic algorithms. This project demonstrates the application of genetic algorithms in game development and how it can be used for machine learning tasks. It also showcases the use of 2D collider and raycasting in Unity, object-oriented programming, and debugging using Unity's tools.

### **Future Improvements:**

In the future, I plan to add more obstacles and challenges to the game to make it more challenging. I also plan to implement a neural network to replace the current gene sequence and improve the performance of the birds. Additionally, I plan to optimize the code to run more efficiently and to improve the overall user experience of the game.