---
title: "Movement with Genetic algorithms in unity"
date: 2023-02-22T10:58:43+01:00
draft: false
id: 4
tags: ["unity", "AI"]
featureImage: "/images/giphy.gif"
---

### **Description:** 

In this project, I created a genetic algorithm to train bots to survive on a long, narrow beam in a Unity game environment. The algorithm used a fitness function based on the distance traveled by each bot to encourage them to move along the platform rather than just jumping up and down or standing still. The project also included the creation of a population manager to handle the selection and breeding of new solutions.

### **Key Skills Demonstrated:**

-   Genetic algorithms
-   Unity game development
-   Fitness function design
-   Population management
-   Object-oriented programming
       
### **Tools and Technologies Used:**

-   Unity game engine
-   C# programming language


### **Details:**

The project began with the creation of a DNA code to represent the genes of each bot. The code was initialized with random values within a specific range and then used to control the behavior of the bot. The population manager was then created to manage the population of bots and handle the selection and breeding of new solutions. The fitness function was based on the distance traveled by each bot, encouraging them to move along the platform rather than just jumping up and down or standing still.

### **Outcome:**

The genetic algorithm was successful in training the bots to stay alive on the platform and move along it. The project demonstrated the effectiveness of genetic algorithms in training agents to perform specific tasks in a game environment. The skills demonstrated in the project can be applied to a wide range of applications in machine learning, optimization, and robotics.

### **Future Improvements:**

One potential improvement for the project would be to incorporate additional variables into the fitness function to make it more robust. Additionally, implementing a more sophisticated selection process could further improve the algorithm's performance.