---
title: "Creating movement for bots with genetic algorithms"
date: 2023-02-22T10:58:43+01:00
draft: false
id: 1004
tags: ["unity", "AI"]
featureImage: "/images/giphy.gif"
toc: true
---

{{< toc >}}

### **Introduction** 

The field of artificial intelligence has been rapidly evolving, with new technologies and algorithms being developed every day. In the world of game development, creating bots that can move effectively and adapt to different scenarios can be a challenging task. Genetic algorithms offer a powerful solution to this problem by using evolutionary principles to train bots to perform specific tasks. In this blog, we will discuss how genetic algorithms can be used to create movement for bots in Unity game environment.

### **Genetic Algorithms and their Applications**

Genetic algorithms are a type of optimization algorithm that are inspired by the process of natural selection. They work by creating a population of potential solutions and then evolving them over several generations to find the best solution. Genetic algorithms have a wide range of applications, including machine learning, optimization, and robotics.

### **Creating a population of bots using genetic algorithms**

To create a population of bots, we need to define a gene sequence that represents the bots' behavior. In this scenario, we will use the Ethan Walker Unity package to create a population of bots that must survive on a long, narrow beam. We will create a DNA code that will be used by the bot and set random values in the gene when it's initialized. We will also use integer values to set the maximum value of the gene and use the set method to set the integer value at a particular position for the gene sequence. Finally, we will use the combine method to split the sequence from the parent and put them back together.
       
### **Setting up the population manager**

The population manager class is responsible for creating a large population of bots for training using genetic algorithms. We will create this class with a bot prefab, population size, population list, elapsed time, trial time, and generation. We will use the Unity GUI system to display stats about the current generation on the screen. We will also create an initial population of bots using a for loop and set the position of each bot to a random location within a certain range. To prevent collisions between bots, which could interfere with the genetic algorithm's training, we will implement a collision detection system.

### **Using distance as fitness function**

In this scenario, we will use a distance value to calculate fitness rather than how long the character has been alive for. This way, we can train the bots not only to stay on the platform but also to encourage them to move along the platform rather than just jumping up and down or standing still. We will add a distance traveled value to the brain class and update it in the if alive in the fixed update for each agent. This value will be used in the breed new population code to determine fitness, instead of using how long the agent has been alive. This approach allows for a more effective way to train the bots to move along the platform and stay alive.

### **Conclusion**

Genetic algorithms are a powerful technique that can be used to solve a wide range of problems, including creating movement for bots in a Unity game environment. we have demonstrated how genetic algorithms can be used to train bots to perform a specific task for example by using distance as a fitness function. The applications of genetic algorithms are endless, and they will continue to play an important role in the field of artificial intelligence.