---
title: "Catch the lion in Pygame"
date: 2023-02-22T10:58:43+01:00
draft: false
id: 6
tags: ["Pygame"]
featureImage: "/images/CatchTheLion/splashscreen.png"
blogImages: [/images/CatchTheLion/1.gif]
downloadIcons: ["itch-io","github"]
downloadPages: ["https://meruman.itch.io/catch-the-lion","https://github.com/Meruman/Pygame-game-dev/tree/main/3.-catch_the_Lion"]
---

### **Description:** 

Catch the Lion is a fun and interactive game created using Python and the Pygame library. The objective of the game is to catch the lion by clicking on it with your mouse. The game is designed to test your reflexes and hand-eye coordination, while providing an entertaining experience.

### **Key Skills Demonstrated:**

-   Game development using Python
-   Pygame library
-   User input handling
-   Audio and music integration
       
### **Tools and Technologies Used:**

-   Python
-   Pygame
-   Git version control
-   Pygbag
-   Visual Studio code editor


### **Details:**

Developed using Python and the Pygame library, the game boasts an intuitive game development interface. The game script imports various modules, including pygame, random, asyncio, os, and sys, and starts by initializing the Pygame library using the pygame.init() function.

The game window is established with the required dimensions, and game values, such as window size, frames per second, player lives, lion velocity, and lion acceleration, are defined. The game features defined colors and fonts, loaded sounds, images, and music.

The game loop is defined as an asynchronous function "main()", because it is required by Pygbag, which accepts user input, such as mouse clicks, and updates the game state accordingly. If the user clicks on the lion, their score increases, and the lion's speed and direction change randomly. If the user misses the lion, their number of lives decreases.

The game updates the positions of the lion and other elements, such as the HUD and background, and displays them on the screen using the blit() function. The game over screen displays when the player loses all their lives. The game continues to run until the user closes the game window.

### **Outcome:**

The project's outcome is an interactive and entertaining game that offers a fun experience for users. It showcases my proficiency in Python and the Pygame library, user input handling, graphics design, and audio and music integration.

### **Future Improvements:**

There are multiple areas where the game can be enhanced, including adding more difficulty levels. Improvements can also be made to the game's graphics and audio to improve the user experience. Additionally, the game's performance can be optimized for smooth operation on various devices.