---
title: "Alien ranger in Pygame with Stable diffusion"
date: 2023-02-22T10:58:43+01:00
draft: false
id: 8
tags: ["Pygame", "Stable diffusion"]
featureImage: "/images/AlienRanger/splashscreen.png"
blogImages: [/images/AlienRanger/1.gif, /images/AlienRanger/2.gif]
downloadIcons: ["itch-io","github"]
downloadPages: ["https://meruman.itch.io/alien-ranger","https://github.com/Meruman/Pygame-game-dev/tree/main/7.-alien_ranger"]
---

### **Project Overview** 

This project is a simple game called "Alien Ranger" created using Python and Pygame library. The game features a player catching aliens and aims to achieve high scores. The game's image assets were generated using Stable diffusion, an AI language model that creates images from textual descriptions. Using generated images for game development provides unique graphics that can be customized for the specific game's requirements.

### **Concept and Design**

Alien Ranger is a single-player game where the player is tasked with catching aliens of a specific color and shape. The game has multiple rounds, with each round having more aliens than before. To get points, the player must catch the target alien while avoiding other aliens, the game ends when the player loses all their lives.
       
### **Tools and Technologies Used**

-   Python
-   Pygbag
-   Visual studio code
-   Stable diffusion


### **Goals and Objectives**

The goal of this project was to keep researching the image generation power from Stable diffusion and create a challenging game where the player has three lives, and losing a life by catching the wrong alien reduces the player's score. The game gets progressively more challenging as the rounds progress, with the target alien moving faster and the number of aliens increasing. This project was also used to improve skills using Python and Pygame as well as Game design.

### **Development Process**

The game was developed using Python and Pygame library, I wrote code that sets up the game window, initializes game objects, and sets up the game loop to handle user input and update the game state. I also created a "GameManager" class to manage the gameplay and handle collisions between the player and the aliens. The game was iteratively developed, with each feature tested and refined before moving on to the next. At the end I used the Pygbag library to export the game into itch-io and be able to play it directly in the website without the need to download the files.

### **Art and Sound**

All image assets in the game were generated using Stable diffusion. The game also features sound effects and music from Freesound, adding to the overall gaming experience.

### **Gameplay and Demo**

The gameplay involves catching aliens while avoiding the ones that are not the target alien. The target alien is highlighted with a rectangle, and catching the wrong alien results in the player losing a life. The game gets progressively more challenging, with faster-moving target aliens and an increasing number of aliens on screen. The demo version of the game showcases the game's core mechanics, and the game's increasing difficulty.

### **Future Plans**

Future plans for the game include adding new features such as different game modes, and adding more AI-generated Aliens. It would also be a future plan that the game could also be ported to other platforms such as mobile devices or consoles, expanding the game's reach to a wider audience.