---
title: "Alien invasion in unity with Stable diffusion"
date: 2023-02-22T10:58:43+01:00
draft: false
id: 9
tags: ["unity", "AI", "Stable diffusion"]
featureImage: "/images/AlienInvasion/splashscreen.png"
blogImages: [/images/AlienInvasion/1.gif, /images/AlienInvasion/2.gif, /images/AlienInvasion/3.gif, /images/AlienInvasion/4.gif]
downloadIcons: ["itch-io"]
downloadPages: ["https://meruman.itch.io/alien-invasion"]
---

### **Description:** 

 I'm thrilled to present this game development project, a top-down shooter game made in Unity. The unique aspect of this project is that all the image assets were generated by Stable difussion and the plot was created by ChatGPT. The purpose of this project is to showcase how efficient and productive AI tools can be when used in game development.

### **Concept and Design**

The game's concept is centered around an alien invasion on a distant planet. Players take on the role of a space explorer who must fend off hostile aliens. The player character is a humanoid in a space suit, while the aliens come in various sizes and shapes, each with their own unique attack patterns. The player has a selection of weapons at their disposal, including a plasma rifle, flamethrower, and EMP gun.
       
### **Tools and Technologies Used**

To create this project, I used Unity as the game engine and GIMP to modify the image assets generated by Stable diffusion. ChatGPT was used to provide guidance and feedback throughout the development process.

### **Goals and Objectives**

The primary goal of this project is to create a functional and engaging top-down shooter game that showcases the efficient use of AI tools in game development. I aimed to create a game that provides a challenging and enjoyable experience for players as they navigate through the world and battle various types of aliens to ultimately defeat the Big Queen Alien. Also the images must had a consistent style which I achieved using ChatGPT as prompt generator for Stable diffusion, after that I modified the images in GIMP to be able to animate the characters and weapons.

### **Development Process**

I began by asking ChatGPT to give me a game document design about the game's concept, objectives, and mechanics. Then, with that information I asked him for prompts that I could use in Stable diffusion and the image assets were generated with those prompts, I selected the best ones and modified them with GIMP to fit the game's design and to be able to animate them, after that, Unity was used to create the game's mechanics, UI, and overall functionality.

### **Art and Sound**

The game features a visually stunning art style that includes all image assets artificially generated. Sound effects and music were added to enhance the overall gameplay experience.

### **Gameplay and Demo**

The gameplay involves the player navigating through the planet and battling various types of aliens to reach the ultimate goal of defeating the Big Queen Alien. The game includes weapon power-ups and health drops, adding an extra strategic element to the gameplay. A demo version of the game is available to showcase the game's mechanics and overall design.

### **Skills learned**

Throughout the development of this project, I gained valuable skills in game design, Unity development, image asset modification using GIMP, and efficient use of AI state of the art technology.

### **Future Plans**

Future plans for the game may include adding additional levels, characters, and weapons power-ups to enhance the player's experience. Additionally, adding multiplayer capabilities could make the game more engaging for players. I also look forward to exploring the use of other AI tools in my future projects.